
= Transport

A HTTP/JSON transport layer. Provides a single command interface to perform http/json requests. A spec helper to
perform request against a fake server is also included.

== HTTP requests

To perform a http request the call of a single command is needed.

  Transport::HTTP.request :get, "http://www.google.com", :expected_status_code => 200

The method will return a string with the content of Google home page. If another status code is received than the
expected one, an <tt>Transport::UnexpectedStatusCodeError</tt> will be raised. In that case, the status code can be
read from the raised error object.

  begin
    Transport::HTTP.request :get, "http://www.google.com", :expected_status_code => 200
  rescue Transport::UnexpectedStatusCodeError => error
    puts "error code = #{error.status_code}"
  end

=== Parameters, headers and the request body

Parameters and headers can also be passed to the request method.

  Transport::HTTP.request :get, "http://www.somesite.com",
    :parameters => { "test" => "test value" },
    :headers => { "Accept" => "text/html", "Content-Type" => "application/x-www-form-urlencoded" }

Before performing a GET or DELETE request, the given parameters will be encoded in the request url (e.g.
<tt>?test=test%20value</tt>). POST and PUT request will transport the encoded parameters in their request body, unless
a request body is explicitly specified.

  Transport::HTTP.request :post, "http://www.somesite.com",
    :headers => { "Accept" => "text/html", "Content-Type" => "text/html" },
    :body => "<html>some data</html>"

=== Authentication

Currently, BASIC authentication is supported for requests. To enable it, simply pass the parameter <tt>auth_type</tt>
along with <tt>username</tt> and <tt>password</tt> to the request method.

  Transport::HTTP.request :get, "http://www.somesite.com",
    :auth_type => :basic, :username => "user", :password => "pass"

== JSON requests

A JSON request is basically an extensions of a HTTP request. All options that are possible on HTTP request are also
possible on JSON requests. But a few differences should be mentioned here.

* The <tt>Accept</tt> header will be set to <tt>application/json</tt> anyway.
* If a request body is specified, the <tt>Content-Type</tt> will also be set to <tt>application/json</tt> cause only
  json data should be transferred.
* If the option <tt>encode_parameters</tt> is set the true, all parameters will be encoded to json, before encoded to
  the url. This makes it possible to transfer more complex parameters like arrays and hashes.
* The response body will also be parsed to json.

=== Example

  Transport::JSON.request :get, "http://www.somesite.com/content.json",
    :auth_type => :basic, :username => "user", :password => "pass",
    :parameters => { "filter" => { "date" => Date.today, "tags" => [ "gossip", "serious" ] } },
    :encode_parameters => true

This will perform an authenticated GET request to the given url and passes the json-encoded parameters.

== Fake requests

For test proposes, this gem also comes with the possibility of doing fake requests. If you want to test your code
against a webservice, but don't want to dependent on a network connection or on the webservice itself - or just want
to speed up your tests, you can fake the webservice by calling <tt>Transport::Spec::Faker.fake!</tt>.

  describe "webservice" do

    before :each do
      Transport::Spec::Faker.fake! "some_filename.yml"
    end

    ...

  end

The given filename should point to a YML file that contains an array of all fake requests. The file should look like
the following example.

  -- # use a single dash here
    :http_method: "get"
    :url:         "http://www.somesite.com/content.json"
    :response:
      :code: 200
      :body:
        "test": "test value"
  -- # use a single dash here
    :http_method: "post"
    :url:         "http://www.somesite.com"
    :headers:
      "Accept": "text/html"
      "Content-Type": "text/html"
    :response:
      :code: 200
      :body: "<html>test value</html>"

Once the faker is activated, it will try to fake any request. If your software is trying to do a request that isn't
defined in the YML file, it will raises a <tt>Transport::Spec::Faker::NoFakeRequestError</tt>.

== Development

This project is still experimental and under development. Any bug report and contribution is welcome!
